# CMT_MAT021_Foundations_of_Operational_Research-Analytics
In this project, we build a model using the Simul8 software of our choice. It was important for us to select a system that would provide collectible real-life data whilst being complex enough to provide a compelling model. Waiting lines (or) Queues are the most frequently encountered problem in our daily life. The Queuing models are very helpful for determining how to operate a queuing system most effectively. In queuing theory a model is constructed so that queue length and waiting times can be predicted. These models enable finding an appropriate balance between the cost of service and the amount of waiting. This shows a need for a numerical model for the business management to understand the situation better. Additionally, it was also essential for the model to somehow incorporate the effects of the pandemic, for our report to reflect the world of today. The common problem that arises in almost every common business is that they lose their customers due to a long wait on the line. So, we decided to select the Apple store, in Cardiff, as it is one of the single and busiest stores and also the queuing system was a little bit longer. We have collected real-time data from different available resources from the apple store and started a live model. Also, for statistical analysis, we have used the programming language Python and vensim software. The main aim of this model is to achieve quality customer service standards with efficient usage of available resources.
